---

copyright:
  years: 2025, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-04-15"

keywords: data, secure, encrypt, cos, bucket, storage

subcollection: instructlab

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Securing your data in {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}
{: #mng-data}

To ensure that you can securely manage your data when you use {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}, it is important to know exactly what data is stored and encrypted and how you can delete any stored data. 
{: shortdesc}

## How your data is stored and encrypted in {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}
{: #data-storage}

{{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} uses an {{site.data.keyword.cos_full}} (COS) instance to store your taxonomy and training data. All objects that are stored in {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} are encrypted by default. For added security, you can use {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} or {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} to encrypt the data in your {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket as well. For more information, see [Encrypting your data](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-encryption) in the {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} documentation. 

The knowledge documents that you reference in your `qna.yaml` files are not stored by {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}. 

### Enabling Cloud {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} for {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}
{: #using-byok}

You must enable {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} to use {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} by [creating a service authorization](). If you delete this authorization, your {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} instance loses access to your {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket. However, any existing data remains in your bucket.

## Deleting your data in {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}
{: #data-delete}

All data used or generated by {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} is stored in your {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket and remains there unless you manually delete it. For information on deleting data from COS, see [Emptying a bucket](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-deleting-multiple-objects-patterns).

## Deleting or canceling jobs in {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}
{: #data-jobs}

Once a job is completed, the generated data is uploaded to your {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket. Deleting a job does not delete the data in the bucket. If you cancel a job before it is completed, any data that was generated before the cancellation is uploaded to your bucket. Canceling a job does not delete the data in the bucket. 

For information on the data uploaded to your {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket, see [What's in my {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket after data generation?](/docs/instructlab?topic=instructlab-data-generate&interface=ui#data-bucket).

### Deleting {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} instances
{: #service-delete}

If you delete your {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} instance, relevant data still exists in your {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket. Deleting the {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} instance does not delete the data in the {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket.

### Restoring deleted data for {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}
{: #data-restore}

Data that is deleted from your {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket cannot be recovered. 

## Removing access to {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}}
{: #data-access-remove}

Access to {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} service instances for users in your account is controlled by {{site.data.keyword.iamlong}} (IAM). Every user that accesses the {{site.data.keyword.instructlab_short}} service in your account must be assigned an access policy with an IAM role, which determines what actions a user can perform within the context of the service or specific instance that you select. To remove a user's access policy, see [Removing access by using the CLI](/docs/account?topic=account-assign-access-resources&interface=cli#removing-access-cli) or [Removing access in the console](/docs/account?topic=account-assign-access-resources&interface=ui#removing-access-console).
