---

copyright:
  years: 2024, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-09-11"

keywords: instructlab, ai

subcollection: instructlab

content-type: tutorial

services: instructlab
account-plan: paid
completion-time: 30m

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Getting started with {{site.data.keyword.product_name}}
{: #getting-started}
{: toc-content-type="tutorial"}
{: toc-services="instructlab"}
{: toc-completion-time="30m"}

Get ready to dive into [AI](#x3448902){: term}! InstructLab is an open source project created by IBM and Red Hat to be a cost-effective entry point into the world of [machine learning](#x8397498){: term}.
{: shortdesc}


## Prerequisites
{: #instructlab_pre}

Before you begin, make sure you have a paid {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} account.


## Get familiar with the capabilities
{: #get-familiar}

If you are new to machine learning, you are in the right place. To use InstructLab, you do not need to have any preexisting knowledge. You do not even need to have an idea for what to create yet. Let's start by just getting familiar with the larger concepts and what kinds of things you can do with the technology.

[Generative AI](#x10298036){: term} starts with a [large language model (LLM)](#x10298052){: term}. With a prompt, these models can take large sets of data and provide a statistically probable output for that prompt. You can automatically generate a large data set that is similar to real data, and then use it to train the model to get the most probable output possible.

With InstructLab, you can use an existing, pre-trained LLM compiled by a community of contributors, and then generate the data to further train the model. By incorporating {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you have a place to store the taxonomy, the informational structure, for the model as you modified it and train the model on an ongoing basis.


## Request access
{: #instructlab_access}
{: step}

The {{site.data.keyword.product_name}} service is under development and is not yet generally available. The project is currently at capacity with a small number of critical test projects involved. As the service develops, capacity is expected to added. For your project to be considered, send an email to `instructlab@ibm.com` with the following information. You can find your account ID on the [Account settings](https://cloud.ibm.com/account/settings){: external} page. Allow 1-2 business days for the request to be processed. After you are allowlisted, you can access the InstructLab UI and CLI. 


To
```txt
instructlab@ibm.com
```
{: codeblock}

Subject
```txt
Request to allowlist account: <account_id> to use IBM Cloud InstructLab Service.
```
{: codeblock}

Body
```txt
Add account <account_id> to the allowlist for the IBM Cloud InstructLab service.
```
{: codeblock}

While you wait for you account to be added to the allowlist, you can continue on with step 2. 


## Set up {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}
{: #instructlab_cos}
{: step}

A COS bucket is required to store all inputs and outputs used or generated by InstructLab, including the taxonomy, the generated data, and the final fine-tuned model. Follow these steps to set up a COS bucket. 

1. If you already have a COS instance, in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} user interface, click **Resource List** > **Storage** > ***instance*** to open it. If you do not already have one, [provision a COS instance](https://cloud.ibm.com/objectstorage/create){: external} in your account.

1. Create a custom bucket. Specify **Resiliency** as **Regional** and the **Location** as **United States - Washington (us-east)**.

1. In the side navigation, under **Instances**, click the name of the COS instance to return to the service instance overview.

1. Click the **Service credentials** tab and create credentials. Specify the **Role** as Writer and make sure HMAC credentials are included.

1. Expand the new key name and save the `access-key-id` and `secret-access-key` for your HMAC credentials. These are used later in this tutorial to add your taxonomy to the COS bucket.


## Install the CLI plug-in
{: #instructlab_cli_install}
{: step}

1. Install the [{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} CLI](/docs/cli?topic=cli-getting-started).

1. Add the `ilab` plug-in repo.

    ```sh
    ibmcloud plugin repo-add stage https://plugins.test.cloud.ibm.com
    ```
    {: pre}

    Example output.
    ```sh
    OK
    https://plugins.test.cloud.ibm.com added as 'stage'.
    ```
    {: screen}

1. Install the plug-in. You must be connected to the IBM VPN.

    ```sh
    ibmcloud plugin install ilab -r stage
    ```
    {: pre}

    ```sh
    Looking up 'ilab' from repository 'stage'...
    Plug-in 'ilab 0.0.1' found in repository 'stage'
    Plug-in 'ilab 0.0.1' was already installed. Do you want to re-install it or not? [y/N] > y
    Attempting to download the binary file...
    16.89 MiB / 16.89 MiB [============================================] 100.00% 4s
    17713074 bytes downloaded
    Installing binary...
    OK
    Plug-in 'ilab 0.0.1' was successfully installed into /Users/derekpoindexter/.bluemix/plugins/ilab. Use 'ibmcloud plugin show ilab' to show its details.
    ```
    {: screen}

1. Log in to your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account from the CLI.
    ```sh
    ibmcloud login -a https://cloud.ibm.com --sso -r us-east
    ```
    {: pre}


## Prepare a taxonomy
{: #instructlab_taxonomy}
{: step}

In this example, we use the InstructLab [community taxonomy](https://github.com/instructlab/taxonomy){: external}. 

1. Fork the community taxonomy repo.
    ```txt
    https://github.com/instructlab/taxonomy 
    ```
    {: codeblock}

1. Clone your fork to your local machine.
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/<my-org>/taxonomy
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Optional: Make updates to the taxonomy locally and push the changes back to your fork. This example adds rhyming questions to the [linguistics](https://github.com/instructlab/taxonomy/blob/main/compositional_skills/grounded/linguistics) directory.

    a. In your cloned fork, create a `/instructlab-taxonomy/compositional_skills/grounded/linguistics/rhyming_words/qna.yaml` file.

    b. In the `qna.yml` file, add a question related to rhyming words.
    ```txt
    - answer: 'Here are two rhyming words for "cave":


        1\. Brave

        2\. Gave


        '
    question: 'Give me two words that rhyme with cave

        '

    ```
    {: codeblock}

    c. Save the changes and push them to the fork.

    d. If your additions include reference documents in Github, such as [this example](https://github.com/instructlab/taxonomy/blob/main/knowledge/science/animals/birds/black_capped_chickadee/qna.yaml#L185), you can use public `github.com` repositories and IBM internal `github.ibm.com` repositories. 

    ```txt
    document:
    repo: https://github.ibm.com/<organization>/<repository>
    commit: <commit_sha>
    patterns:
        - <filename>.md

    ```
    {: codeblock}

    If you are using an IBM internal `github.ibm.com` repository, you must give the `instructlab-ibm` user read access to the repository. Click **Settings** > **Collaborators** and in the **Manage Access** section, click **Add people**. Invite `instructlab-ibm`. The invitation is labeled as `pending` for 1-2 business days until the invitation is accepted. Until the invitation is accepted, you can continue to work with the taxonomy and generate data, but wait to complete the training steps.
    {: important}

    e. Optional: Learn more about how to modify the [taxonomy](https://github.com/instructlab/taxonomy) for the model.

    f. Optional: [Validate the updated taxonomy](/docs/instructlab?topic=instructlab-ts-debug#version).



## Add your taxonomy to COS
{: #instructlab_add}
{: step}

After you receive access to InstructLab, complete the following steps to add your taxonomy.

1. Gather the details of your COS instance and bucket.

    The `access-key-id` and `secret-access-key` to access your COS bucket.
    :   You can find these in the **Service Credentials** tab of your COS instance.
    
    Your COS bucket name.
    :   You can find this on the **Buckets** tab of your COS instance.

    The endpoint to access your bucket.
    :   Use the public, regional endpoint. For example `https://s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud`. You can find these in the **Endpoints** tab of the COS console.
    
    The region your bucket is in.
    :   For example, `us-east`.

1. Run the `init` command to set and save COS bucket details and credentials, which can simplify your commands going forward.

    ```sh
    ibmcloud ilab config init \
    --taxonomy-path <local-path-to-taxonomy> \
    --taxonomy-path-cos <taxonomy-path-in-cos-bucket> \
    --cos-bucket-information-access-key-id <id> \
    --cos-bucket-information-secret-access-key <key> \
    --cos-bucket-information-bucket <bucket_name> \
    --cos-bucket-information-endpoint <endpoint> \
    --cos-bucket-information-region us-east
    ```
    {: pre}

    Example command
    ```sh
    ibmcloud ilab config init --taxonomy-path /Users/USER/instructlab-taxonomy --taxonomy-path-cos /optional-folder/filename.tar.gz --cos-bucket-information-access-key-id XXX --cos-bucket-information-secret-access-key XXX --cos-bucket-information-bucket instruct-lab-bucket --cos-bucket-information-endpoint https://s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud --cos-bucket-information-region us-east
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Run the add command to allow InstructLab to store your taxonomy in COS. Use alphanumeric characters in the name.

    ```sh
    ibmcloud ilab taxonomy add --name <name>
    ```
    {: pre}

    Example command
    ```sh
    ibmcloud ilab taxonomy add --name test
    ```
    {: pre}



## What's next?
{: #instructlab_next}

[Generate data from the taxonomy.](/docs/instructlab?topic=instructlab-data-generate)
